
 Abandon (F) vs Abandon (E)

    Abandon (F) is a noun that means abandonment, desertion, neglect, or giving up. It can also mean abandon, especially with a verb: danser avec abandon = to dance with abandon. Abandonner = to abandon.
    Abandon (E) = abandon.

Habileté (F) vs Ability (E)

    Habileté (F) refers to a skill, cleverness, a talent, or a skillful move.
    Ability (E) is a similar but weaker term, translatable by une aptitude, une capacité, or une compétence.

Abus (F) vs Abuse (E)

    Abus (F) can mean abuse, excess, or injustice.
    Abuse (E) = abus, while verbal abuse is des injures or insultes.

Abuser (F) vs Abuse (E)

    Abuser (F) means to exploit, abuse, take advantage of, deceive, or mislead. S'abuser means to be mistaken or to delude oneself.
    Abuse (E) can be translated by abuser, injurier, insulter, or maltraiter.

Accéder (F) vs Accede (E)

    Accéder (F) means to reach, attain, get to, access.
    Accede (E) has three different meanings. (1) to agree/accept: agréer, accepter. (2) to take on a new position: entrer en possession/fonction. (3) to join: adhérer, se joindre.

Accidenté(F) vs Accidental (E)

    Accidenté (F) can be an adjective: hilly, undulating, or damaged; or a noun: casualty, injured person. Accidenter means to injure or damage.
    Accidental (E) means accidentel (bad) or fortuit (good).

Achèvement (F) vs Achievement (E)

    Achèvement (F) refers to the completion or culmination of something.
    Achievement (E) has a more positive sense of attaining something that was sought after: exploit, réussite, accomplissement.

Achever (F) vs Achieve (E)

    Achever (F) usually means to finish, end, complete, reach. It can also be more figurative: to finish off, destroy, kill.
    Achieve (E) = accomplir, réaliser, atteindre.

Acompte (F) vs Account (E)

    Acompte (F) refers to a deposit, down payment, or installment.
    Account (E) = un compte.

Action (F) vs Action (E)

    Action (F) can mean action as well as act or a share of stock.
    Action (E) = action or effet.

Actuellement (F) vs Actually (E)

    Actuellement (F) means at the present time, and should be translated as currently or right now. Je travaille actuellement = I am currently working. A related word is actuel, which means present or current: le problème actuel = the current/present problem.
    Actually (E) means "in fact" and should be translated as en fait or à vrai dire. Actually, I don't know him - En fait, je ne le connais pas. Actual means real or true, and depending on the context can be translated as réel, véritable, positif, or concret: The actual value = la valeur réelle.

Adepte (F) vs Adept (E)

    Adepte (F) is a noun: follower or enthusiast.
    Adept (E) is an adjective: compétent or expert.

Addition (F) vs Addition (E)

    Addition (F) can refer to addition, a sum, or a restaurant check or bill.
    Addition (E) = une addition, une augmentation, or un surcroît.

Ado (F) vs Ado (E)

    Ado (F) is an apocope of adolescent—teen or teenager.
    Ado (E) is a somewhat rare word that is equivalent to agitation or bruit (figuratively)

Adresse (F) vs Address (E)

    Adresse (F) can refer to a mailing, email, or spoken address or to deftness, skill, or dexterity.
    Address (E) = une adresse or un discours.

Affaire (F) vs Affair (E)

    Affaire (F) can mean business, matter, deal, transaction, or scandal.
    Affair (E) is the equivalent of affaire only in the sense of an event or concern. A love affair is une liaison, une affaire d'amour, or une aventure amoureuse.

Affluence (F) vs Affluence (E)

    Affluence (F) is a crowd of people: Il y avait une affluence attendant à la porte = There were crowds waiting at the door.
    Affluence (E) indicates a lot of something (usually wealth): There's an affluence of information here = Il y a une abondance d'information ici. His affluence is obvious = Sa richesse est évidente.

Agenda (F) vs Agenda (E)

    Agenda (F) refers to a datebook.
    Agenda (E) means l'ordre du jour or le programme.

Agonie (F) vs Agony (E)

    Agonie (F) refers to death pangs or mortal agony.
    Agony (E) means severe physical or mental pain, but not necessarily just this side of death: angoisse, supplice.

Agréable (F) vs Agreeable (E)

    Agréable (F) means pleasant or nice when describing a thing, such as the weather or situation. It's not used to describe people other than in the construction être agréable de sa personne = to be pleasant-looking/personable.
    Agreeable (E) does not normally mean agréable, but rather "in agreement," which doesn't have an exact equivalent in French. I'm agreeable to doing it = Je le ferai volontiers. If that's agreeable/acceptable = S'il n'y a pas d'inconvénient, Si cela vous convient.

Agrément (F) vs Agreement (E)

    Agrément (F) refers to charm, attractiveness, or pleasantness.
    Agreement (E) = accord or harmonie.

Aimer (F) vs Aim (E)

    Aimer (F) means to like or to love.
    Aim (E) can be a noun: but, visées; or a verb: braquer, pointer, viser.

Allée (F) vs Alley (E)

    Allée (F) is a generic term for any sort of road or path: lane, path, avenue, driveway, etc. It can also refer to an aisle.
    Alley (E) = une ruelle.

Allure (F) vs Allure (E)

    Allure (F) normally refers to speed or pace: Rouler à toute allure = to drive at full speed. It can also refer to an appearance or look. Allures refers to behavior or ways.
    Allure (E) indicates charm or attrait.

Altérer (F) vs Alter (E)

    Altérer (F) can mean alter, but it nearly always has a negative connotation: distort, falsify, tamper with, spoil, debase.
    Alter (E) = changer, modifier, transformer, etc.

Amateur (F) vs Amateur (E)

    Amateur (F) is a semi-false cognate. It can mean amateur in the sense of non-professional, but it can also mean a lover of something: un amateur d'art = an art lover.
    Amateur (E) refers to someone who dabbles in a trade or activity: an amateur photographer: un amateur de photographie.

Amitié (F) vs Amity (E)

    Amitié (F) is the generic French word for friendship.
    Amity (E) is used more specifically to mean peaceful relations between nations = concorde or bons rapports.

Ancien (F) vs Ancient (E)

    Ancien (F) can mean old in the sense of not young as well as in the sense of former: mon ancien professeur = my old (former) teacher, mon professeur ancien = my old (aged) teacher. Learn more about adjectives.
    Ancient (E) means antique or très vieux.

Animation(F) vs Animation (E)

    Animation (F) is much more general in French than in English. In addition to animation, life, liveliness, it can also refer to cultural or sports activities as well as leadership.
    Animation (E) means animation or vivacité.

Antique (F) vs Antique (E)

    Antique (F) as an adjective means antique or ancient. As a noun, it refers to antiquity or classical art/style.
    Antique (E) means the same an adjective, but as a noun it refers to une antiquité, un objet d'art ancien, or un meuble ancien.

Apologie (F) vs Apology (E)

    Apologie (F) has three different meanings. The original meaning of defense or plea is related to the judiciary meaning of vindication or justification. The current and most common meaning is praise.
    Apology (E) = les excuses.

Appareil (F) vs Apparel (E)

    Appareil (F) is an apparatus, device, or appliance.
    Apparel (E) is an out-dated term for clothing: habillement.

Are (F) vs Are (E)

    Are (F) refers to an area of one hundred square meters.
    Are (E) is a conjugation of "to be" (être): we are (nous sommes), you are (vous êtes), they are (ils sont).

Argument (F) vs Argument (E)

    Argument (F) is a semi-false cognate. It means argument in the sense of a mathematical or philosophical argument. Also: argument massue = sledgehammer blow; argument publicitaire = advertising claim; argument de vente = selling point.
    Argument (E) is une discussion, une conversation, un débat, or une dispute.

Arriver (F) vs Arrive (E)

    Arriver (F) can mean to arrive or to happen, while arriver à + verb means to succeed in doing or to manage to do something.
    Arrive (E) is translated by arriver.

Arroser (F) vs Arose (E)

    Arroser (F) means to water or spray.
    Arose (E) is the past participle of arise: survenir, se présenter, s'élever.

Assistance (F) vs Assistance (E)

    Assistance (F) is a semi-false cognate. Its primary meaning is audience.
    Assistance (E) indicates help or aid.

Assister (F) vs Assist (E)

    Assister (F) is nearly always followed by à and means to attend something: J'ai assisté à la conférence = I attended (went to) the conference.
    Assist (E) means to help or aid someone or something: I assisted the woman into the building = J'ai aidé la dame à entrer dans l'immeuble.

Assumer (F) vs Assume (E)

    Assumer (F) only means to assume in the sense of taking on responsibility or assuming control. It also means to hold a job or fulfill a role.
    Assume (E) is a semi-false cognate. In addition to assumer, it can also mean supposer or présumer.

Assurance (F) vs Assurance (E)

    Assurance (F) refers to self-confidence or insurance in addition to assurance.
    Assurance (E) means assurance or conviction.

Attendre (F) vs Attend (E)

    Attendre (F) à means to wait for: Nous avons attendu pendant deux heures = We waited for two hours.
    Attend (E) is translated by assister (see above): I attended the conference = J'ai assisté à la conférence.

Audience (F) vs Audience (E)

    Audience (F) is a semi-false cognate. In addition to the meaning of the English word, it can signify: Votre audience, s'il vous plaît = Your attention, please. Ce projet a une large audience - This project has a lot of attention. Donner audience à quelqu'un = To meet with / listen to someone. Une audience publique = A public meeting.
    Audience (E) is a group of spectators or listeners.

Avertissement (F) vs Advertisement (E)

    Avertissement (F) is a warning or caution, from the verb avertir = to warn.
    Advertisement (E) is une publicité, une réclame, or un spot publicitaire.



Ancien (F) vs. ancient (E)
Ancien (F) commonly means "former," as in l'ancien maire ("the former mayor"), although it can also mean "ancient" as in English in certain contexts that discuss, for instance, very old civilizations.

Attendre (F) vs. attend (E)
Attendre means "to wait for" and it's in one of the most common French phrases: Je t’attends (I'm waiting for you). 
The English "attend," of course, though similar in appearance means to take part in or to go to some event, such as a meeting or a concert.

Bras (F) vs. bra (E)
The French bra (F) is a limb on the human body and the opposite of jambe ("leg"). 
A "bra" (E) in English is, of course, a female undergarment, but the French call this garment, appropriately, a support (un soutien-gorge).

Brasserie (F) vs. brassiere (E)
A French brasserie is an institution in France, a place, much like the British pub, where you'd find a bar that serves meals, or a brewery. 
No connection to the female undergarment in the English word "brassiere," of which "bra" is the abbreviated form.

Blessé (F) vs. Blessed (E)
If someone is blessé in France, they are wounded, emotionally or physically. 
This is far from the English "blessed," which can apply to a religious sacrament or just great luck.

Bouton (F) vs. button (E)
Bouton does mean button in French, as it does in English, but a French bouton can also refer to that bane of the teenage years: a pimple. 

Confection (F) vs. confection (E)
La confection (F) refers to the making or preparing of clothing, a device, a meal, and more. It can also refer to the clothing industry. 
An English confection (E) is a class of food that's sweet, something that's made in a bakery or candy shop.

Exposition (F) vs. exposition (E)
Une exposition (F) can refer to an exposition of facts, as well as to an exhibition or show, the aspect of a building, or exposure to heat or radiation. 
An English "exposition" is a commentary or or an essay developing a point of view.

Grand (F) vs. grand (E)
Grand is a very, very common French word for big, but there are times it refers to something or someone great, such as un grand homme or a grand-père. When it describes a person’s physical appearance, it means tall. 
"Grand" in English commonly refers to a special human being, thing, or place of notable achievement.

Implantation (F) vs. implantation (E)
Une implantation is the introduction or setting up of a new method or industry, a settlement, or a company's presence in a country or region. Medically, the French terms means implantation (of an organ or embryo). 
An English implantation is an implantation only in the sense of an introduction or setting up or in the medical sense.

Justesse (F) vs justice (E)
French justesse is all about exactness, accuracy, correctness, soundness, and the like. If something is juste, it is corect. The English "justice" refers to what we expect when the rule of law prevails: justice.

Librairie (F) vs. Library (E)
These two terms are often confused, and they are true faux amis. Books are involved in both, but une librairie is where you go to purchase a book: a bookshop or newsstand. Your local library is une bibliothèque in France, or these days it may be part of a médiathèque. 
The English "library' is, of course, where you borrow books.

Location (F) vs. location (E) 
There are miles between these two meanings. A French location is a rental, and you'll often see ads for “les meilleures locations de vacances,” meaning “the best holiday rentals.” 
"Location" is the physical spot where something like a building lives, you know: location, location, location, which can be important in finding a French location.

Monnaie (F) vs. money (E)
Monnaie for the French is the loose change jingling in your pocket or weighing down your handbag. People at the checkout who say they have no monnaie don't have the right change. 
English money is all of it, both change and bills.

Vicieux (F) vs. vicious (E)
The French term vicieux (F) gives us pause because it's what you call someone perverted, depraved, or nasty. 
In English, the "vicious" person is brutal, but not quite so nasty as a vicieux in French. 

éducation (F) vs education (E)

     éducation (F) usually refers to education at home: upbringing, manners.
     education (E) is a general term for formal learning = instruction, enseignement.


éligible (F) vs eligible (E)

     éligible (F) means eligible only for membership or an elected office.


     eligible (E) is a much more general term: éligible or admissible. To be eligible = avoir droit à, remplir/satisfaire les conditions requises pour.


émail (F) vs email (E)

     émail (F) refers to enamel.
     email (E) is often translated as un email, but the accepted French term is un courriel (learn more).


embarras (F) vs embarrass (E)

     embarras (F) indicates trouble or confusion as well as embarrassment.
     embarrass (E) is a verb: embarrasser, gêner.


embrasser (F) vs embrace (E)

     embrasser (F) means to kiss, or can be used formally to mean to espouse.
     embrace (E) means étreindre or enlacer.


émergence (F) vs emergency (E)

     émergence (F) is the equivalent of the English words emergence or source.
     emergency (E) is un cas urgent or un imprévu.


employer (F) vs employer (E)

     employer (F) is a verb - to use, employ.
     employer (E) is a noun - un patron, un employeur.


enchanté (F) vs enchanted (E)

     enchanté (F) means enchanted or delighted, and is most commonly used upon meeting someone, the way "It's nice to meet you" is used in English.


     enchanted (E) = enchanté, but the English word is much less common than the French.


enfant (F) vs Infant (E)

     enfant (F) means child.
     Infant (E) refers to un nouveau-né or un bébé.


engagement (F) vs Engagement (E)

     engagement (F) has many meanings: commitment, promise, agreement; (finance) investing, liabilities; (negotiations) opening, start; (sports) kick-off; (contest) entry. It never means a marital engagement.
     engagement (E) usually indicates one's engagement to be married: les fiançailles. It can also refer to un rendez-vous or une obligation.


engrosser (F) vs engross (E)

     engrosser (F) is a familiar verb meaning to knock up, get someone pregnant.
     engross (E) means absorber, captiver.


enthousiaste (F) vs enthusiast (E)

     enthousiaste (F) can be a noun - enthusiast, or an adjective - enthusiastic.
     enthusiast (E) is only a noun - enthousiaste.


entrée (F) vs entrée (E)

     entrée (F) is another word for hors-d'oeuvre; an appetizer.
     entrée (E) refers to the main course of a meal: le plat principal.




envie (F) vs envy (E)

     envie (F) "Avoir envie de" means to want or to feel like something: Je n'ai pas envie de travailler - I don't want to work (feel like working). The verb envier, however, does mean to envy.
     envy (E) means to be jealous or desirous of something belonging to another. The French verb is envier: I envy John's courage - J'envie le courage à Jean.

escroc (F) vs escrow (E)

     escroc (F) refers to a crook or swindler.
     escrow (E) means un dépôt fiduciaire or conditionnel.


étiquette (F) vs etiquette (E)

     étiquette (F) is a semi-false cognate. In addition to etiquette or protocole, it can be a sticker or label.
     etiquette (E) can mean étiquette, convenances, or protocole.


éventuel (F) vs eventual (E)

     éventuel (F) means possible: le résultat éventuel - the possible outcome.
     eventual (E) describes something that will happen at some unspecified point in the future; it can be translated by a relative clause like qui s'ensuit or qui a résulté or by an adverb like finalement.


éventuellement (F) vs eventually (E)

     éventuellement (F) means possibly, if need be, or even: Vous pouvez éventuellement prendre ma voiture - You can even take my car / You can take my car if need be.
     eventually (E) indicates that an action will occur at a later time; it can be translated by finalement, à la longue, or tôt ou tard : I will eventually do it - Je le ferai finalement / tôt ou tard.




évidence (F) vs evidence (E)

     évidence (F) refers to obviousness, an obvious fact, or prominence.
     evidence (E) means le témoignage or la preuve.


évident (F) vs evident (E)

     évident (F) usually means evident or obvious, and there is a familiar expression that always catches me: ce n'est pas évident - it's not that simple.
     evident (E) means évident or manifeste.


évincer (F) vs evince (E)

     évincer (F) means to oust, supplant, or evict.
     evince (E) = manifester or faire preuve de.


exceptionnel (F) vs exceptional (E)

     exceptionnel (F) can mean either exceptional or special in the sense of out-of-the-ordinary, unexpected.
     exceptional (E) means exceptionnel.


expérience (F) vs experience (E)

     expérience (F) is a semi-false cognate, because it means both experience and experiment: J'ai fait une expérience - I did an experiment. J'ai eu une expérience intéressante - I had an interesting experience.
     experience (E) can be a noun or verb refering to something that happened.

Only the noun translates into expérience : Experience shows that ... - L'expérience démontre que... He experienced some difficulties - Il a rencontré des difficultés.


expérimenter (F) vs experiment (E)

     expérimenter (F) is a semi-false cognate. It is equivalent to the English verb, but also has the added sense of to test an apparatus.
     experiment (E) as a verb means to test hypotheses or ways of doing things. As a noun, it is equivalent to the French word expérience (see above).


exploitation (F) vs exploitation (E)

     exploitation (F) can mean either usage or exploitation.
     exploitation (E) is translated by exploitation, but it always has a negative connotation in English, unlike the French which can simply refer to usage.


exposition (F) vs exposition (E)

     Une exposition (F) can refer to an exposition of facts, as well as to an exhibition or show, the aspect of a building, or exposure to heat or radiation.
     Exposition (E) = un commentaire, un exposé, or une interprétation.




extra (F) vs extra (E)

     extra (F) is an adjective that means first-rate or terrific. Un extra is a catering assistant or a treat.
     extra (E) the adjective means supplémentaire. As an adverb, it might be translated by plus, très, or even un supplément (e.g., to pay extra - payer un supplément). As a noun meaning "perk," it's equivalent to un à-côté. extras as in "extra options" are en option or gâteries, "extra fees" are frais supplémentaires. An acting extra is un figurant and extra time in sports is prolongation(s).

     ici (F) vs icy (E)

     ici (F) means here.
     icy (E) means glacial, glacé, or verglacé.


idéologie (F) vs ideology (E)

     idéologie (F) can refer to an ideology, but is usually used in a pejorative sense: ideology or philosophy based on sophomoric or illogical arguments.


     ideology (E) = une idéologie.


ignorant (F) vs ignorant (E)

     ignorant (F) is a semi-false cognate. It usually means unaware of, although it can mean ignorant (E). It can also be a noun - ignoramus.
     ignorant (E) has only one French equivalent - ignorant, but in English it is usually somewhat pejorative: lacking education or knowledge. The French word ignorant doesn't distinguish between unaware and uneducated.


ignorer (F) vs ignore (E)

     ignorer (F) is a semi-false cognate. It nearly always means to be ignorant (E) or unaware of something: j'ignore tout de cette affaire - I know nothing about this business.
     ignore (E) means to deliberately not pay attention to someone or something. The usual translations are ne tenir aucun compte de, ne pas relever, and ne pas prêter attention à.


impair (F) vs impair (E)

     impair (F) is an adjective: odd or uneven.
     impair (E) is a verb: diminuer or affaiblir.


implantation (F) vs implantation (E)

     Une implantation (F) is the introduction or setting up of a new method or industry, a settlement, or a company's presence in country/region.

Medically, it means implantation (of an organ or embryo).
     Implantation (E) means une implantation only in the sense of an introduction or setting up or in the medical sense.


important (F) vs Important (E)

     important (F) has a much broader meaning that its English cognate. In addition to important in the sense of significant or authoritative, important (F) can also mean large, considerable, substantial.
     important (E) = important.


imposition (F) vs imposition (E)

     imposition (F) refers to taxation (les impôts - taxes). In religion, l'imposition des mains = the laying on of hands.
     imposition (E) has two distinct meanings. The imposition of something, such as a regulation, is la mise en place. In the sense of a burden, imposition can't be translated by a noun. The sentence needs to be rewritten using a verb like abuser or déranger to get the sense of imposition across.


inconvénient (F) vs inconvenient (E)

     inconvénient (F) is a noun and is also somewhat stronger than the English word inconvenient; un inconvénient is a disadvantage, drawback, or risk.

Les inconvénients - consequences.
     inconvenient (E) is an adjective: inopportun, importun, gênant, peu pratique, malcommode.


inconsistant (F) vs inconsistent (E)

     inconsistant (F) indicates poor consistency: flimsy, weak, colorless, runny, or watery. In a more general sense, it can be translated by inconsistent.
     inconsistent (E) means lacking consistency or being erratic: inconséquent, incompatible.


index (F) vs index (E)

     index (F) can refer to the index finger, a pointer, or an alphabetical index.
     index (E) is an alphabetical index or table. When it is used in statistics, the French equivalent is une indice.


infect (F) vs infect (E)

     infect (F) is an adjective: revolting, obnoxious, squalid, vile, horrible.
     infect (E) is a verb: infecter, contaminer.


information (F) vs information (E)

     information (F) is a semi-false cognate. Une information refers to a single piece of information, while des informations is equivalent to the general English term information. In addition, une information can indicate an official inquiry or investigation.


     information (E) means des renseignements or informations.


informatiser (F) vs inform (E)

     informatiser (F) = to computerize.
     inform (E) can mean informer, avertir, aviser, or renseigner.


ingrat (F) vs ingrate (E)

     ingrat (F) can be an adjective - ungrateful, bleak, unreliable, or unattractive - or a noun: ingrate, ungrateful person.
     ingrate (E) = un ingrat.


inhabité (F) vs inhabited (E)

     inhabité (F) = uninhabited.
     inhabited (E) means habité.


injure (F) vs injury (E)

     injure (F) is an insult or term of abuse.
     injury (E) refers to une blessure.


inscription (F) vs inscription (E)

     inscription (F) is a true cognate in the sense of text inscriptions. However, it is also a general term for action as well as registration or enrollment.
     inscription (E) = une inscription on a coin or monument, or une dédicace in a book.


insolation (F) vs insulation (E)

     insolation (F) means sunstroke or sunshine.
     insulation (E) = isolation.


instance (F) vs instance (E)

     instance (F) means authority, official proceedings, or insistence.


     instance (E) refers to something that is representative of a group, an example - un exemple.


intégral (F) vs integral (E)

     intégral (F) means complete, unabridged, or total.
     integral (E) means intégrant or constituant.


intéressant (F) vs interesting (E)

     intéressant (F) is a semi-false cognate. In addition to interesting, it can mean attractive, worthwhile, or favorable (e.g., a price or offer).
     interesting (E) means captivating, worth looking at, etc.


intoxiqué (F) vs intoxicated (E)

     intoxiqué (F) means poisoned.
     intoxicated (E) means drunk - ivre.


introduire (F) vs introduce (E)

     introduire (F) means to place, insert, or introduce into. It is not used in the sense of introducing one person to another.
     introduce (E) means présenter.


isolation (F) vs isolation (E)

     isolation (F) refers to insulation.
     isolation (E) equals isolement or quarantaine.


inviter (F) vs invite (E)

     inviter (F) means both to invite and to treat (someone to a meal/drink).
     invite (E) = inviter.

Fabrique (F) vs Fabric (E)

     Fabrique (F) is a factory. De bonne fabrique means good workmanship.
     Fabric (E) is equivalent to tissu or étoffe. When speaking figuratively, e.g., the fabric of society, the French word is structure.




Facilité (F) vs Facility (E)

     Facilité (F) means ease, easiness, ability, or aptitude.
     Facility (E) is a semi-false cognate. It usually refers to a structure that serves a particular function, although it can mean easiness, aptitude, etc.


Façon (F) vs Fashion (E)

     Façon (F) means way, as in voilà la façon dont il procède - this is the way he does it. It can be translated by fashion when it is synonymous with way or manner, as in à ma façon - in my fashion / my way.
     Fashion (E) is a style or custom, usually in clothing: mode or vogue. For all of you apple pie eaters out there, now you know that à la mode really means in fashion.


Facteur (F) vs Factor (E)

     Facteur (F) is a semi-false cognate. In addition to factor, it can mean postman, mailman, or maker - un facteur de pianos - piano maker.
     Factor (E) = un facteur, un élément, un indice.


Fastidieux (F) vs Fastidious (E)

     Fastidieux (F) means tedious, tiresome, or boring
     Fastidious (E) means attentive to detail or exacting: minutieux, méticuleux, tatillon.




Fendre (F) vs Fend (E)

     Fendre (F) means to split or to chop.
     Fend (E) is se débrouiller, to fend off means parer or détourner.


Figure (F) vs Figure (E)

     Figure (F) is a semi-false cognate. It is the French word for face, but can also refer to an illustrated or mathematical figure.
     Figure (E) refers to numbers chiffres as well as to the form of a person's body: forme, silhouette.


File/Filer (F) vs File (E)

     File (F) is a line or queue. Filer (F) means to spin (e.g., cotton or thread) or to prolong.
     File (E) can refer to une lime (as well as the verb limer), un dossier, or un classeur (and the verb classer).


Film (F) vs Film (E)

     Film (F) refers to a movie.
     Film (E) can mean un film as well as la pellicule.


Finalement (F) vs Finally (E)

     Finalement (F) means eventually or in the end.
     Finally (E) is enfin or en dernier lieu.


Flemme (F) vs Phlegm (E)

     Flemme (F) is an informal word for laziness. It's commonly used in the expressions "avoir la flemme" (J'ai la flemme d'y aller - I can't be bothered to go) and "tirer sa flemme" - to loaf about.


     Phlegm (E) = la mucosité.


Flirter (F) vs Flirt (E)

     Flirter (F) may mean to flirt or to go out with/date someone.
     Flirt (E) is flirter or, informally, draguer.


Fluide (F) vs Fluid (E)

     Fluide (F) can be a noun: fluid, or an adjective: fluid, flowing, flexible. Il a du fluide - He has mysterious powers.
     Fluid (E) means fluide or liquide.


Fond (F) vs Fond (E)

     Fond (F) is a noun: bottom or back.
     Fond (E) is an adjective: to be fond of - aimer beaucoup, avoir de l'affection pour.


Football (F) vs Football (E)

     Football (F) or le foot, refers to soccer (in American English).
     Football (E) = le football américain.


Forcément (F) vs Forcefully (E)

     Forcément (F) means inevitably or necessarily.
     Forcefully (E) can be translated by avec force or avec vigueur.


Forfait (F) vs Forfeit (E)

     Forfait (F) is a fixed, set, or all-inclusive price; a package deal; or, in sports, a withdrawal.
     Forfeit (E) as a noun indicates un prix, une peine, or un dédit.


Formation (F) vs Formation (E)

     Formation (F) refers to training as well as formation/forming.


     Formation (E) means formation or création.


Format (F) vs Format (E)

     Format (F) means size.
     Format (E) as a noun refers to présentation; as a verb it means formater or mettre en forme.


Formel (F) vs Formal (E)

     Formel (F) usually means categoric, strict, or definite, but may be translated by formal in linguistics, art, and philosophy.
     Formal (E) = officiel or cérémonieux.


Formidable (F) vs Formidable (E)

     Formidable (F) is an interesting word, because it means great or terrific; almost the opposite of the English. Ce film est formidable ! - This is a great movie!
     Formidable (E) means dreadful or fearsome: The opposition is formidable - L'opposition est redoutable/effrayante.


Fort (F) vs Fort (E)

     Fort (F) is an adjective: strong or loud as well as a noun - fort.
     Fort (E) refers to un fort or fortin.


Four (F) vs Four (E)

     Four (F) is an oven, kiln, or furnace.
     Four (E) = quatre.


Fourniture (F) vs Furniture (E)

     Fourniture (F) means supplying or provision.

It's from the verb fournir: to supply or provide.
     Furniture (E) refers to meubles or moblier.


Foyer (F) vs Foyer (E)

     Foyer (F) can mean home, family, or fireplace as well as a foyer.
     Foyer (E) is un foyer, un hall, or un vestibule.


fraîche (F) vs fresh (E)

     fraîche (F) is the feminine form of the adjective frais, which means both fresh and cool. So this tends to be problem for native French speakers, who often translate boissons fraîches as "fresh drinks," when what they really mean is cool drinks.
     fresh (E) = frais, récent, nouveau.


Friction (F) vs Friction (E)

     Friction (F) can refer to a massage in addition to friction.
     Friction (E) = la friction.


Fronde (F) vs Frond (E)

     Fronde (F) is a sling, slingshot, or catapult; a revolt; or a frond.
     Frond (E) = une fronde or une feuille.


Front (F) vs Front (E)

     Front (F) means front as well as forehead.
     Front (E) = le front or avant.


Futile (F) vs Futile (E)

     Futile (F) can mean futile but is more likely to be frivolous or trivial.


     Futile (E) is nearly always translated by vain.

 Abandon (F) vs Abandon (E)

    Abandon (F) is a noun that means abandonment, desertion, neglect, or giving up. It can also mean abandon, especially with a verb: danser avec abandon = to dance with abandon. Abandonner = to abandon.
    Abandon (E) = abandon.

Habileté (F) vs Ability (E)

    Habileté (F) refers to a skill, cleverness, a talent, or a skillful move.
    Ability (E) is a similar but weaker term, translatable by une aptitude, une capacité, or une compétence.

Abus (F) vs Abuse (E)

    Abus (F) can mean abuse, excess, or injustice.
    Abuse (E) = abus, while verbal abuse is des injures or insultes.

Abuser (F) vs Abuse (E)

    Abuser (F) means to exploit, abuse, take advantage of, deceive, or mislead. S'abuser means to be mistaken or to delude oneself.
    Abuse (E) can be translated by abuser, injurier, insulter, or maltraiter.

Accéder (F) vs Accede (E)

    Accéder (F) means to reach, attain, get to, access.
    Accede (E) has three different meanings. (1) to agree/accept: agréer, accepter. (2) to take on a new position: entrer en possession/fonction. (3) to join: adhérer, se joindre.

Accidenté(F) vs Accidental (E)

    Accidenté (F) can be an adjective: hilly, undulating, or damaged; or a noun: casualty, injured person. Accidenter means to injure or damage.
    Accidental (E) means accidentel (bad) or fortuit (good).

Achèvement (F) vs Achievement (E)

    Achèvement (F) refers to the completion or culmination of something.
    Achievement (E) has a more positive sense of attaining something that was sought after: exploit, réussite, accomplissement.

Achever (F) vs Achieve (E)

    Achever (F) usually means to finish, end, complete, reach. It can also be more figurative: to finish off, destroy, kill.
    Achieve (E) = accomplir, réaliser, atteindre.

Acompte (F) vs Account (E)

    Acompte (F) refers to a deposit, down payment, or installment.
    Account (E) = un compte.

Action (F) vs Action (E)

    Action (F) can mean action as well as act or a share of stock.
    Action (E) = action or effet.

Actuellement (F) vs Actually (E)

    Actuellement (F) means at the present time, and should be translated as currently or right now. Je travaille actuellement = I am currently working. A related word is actuel, which means present or current: le problème actuel = the current/present problem.
    Actually (E) means "in fact" and should be translated as en fait or à vrai dire. Actually, I don't know him - En fait, je ne le connais pas. Actual means real or true, and depending on the context can be translated as réel, véritable, positif, or concret: The actual value = la valeur réelle.

Adepte (F) vs Adept (E)

    Adepte (F) is a noun: follower or enthusiast.
    Adept (E) is an adjective: compétent or expert.

Addition (F) vs Addition (E)

    Addition (F) can refer to addition, a sum, or a restaurant check or bill.
    Addition (E) = une addition, une augmentation, or un surcroît.

Ado (F) vs Ado (E)

    Ado (F) is an apocope of adolescent—teen or teenager.
    Ado (E) is a somewhat rare word that is equivalent to agitation or bruit (figuratively)

Adresse (F) vs Address (E)

    Adresse (F) can refer to a mailing, email, or spoken address or to deftness, skill, or dexterity.
    Address (E) = une adresse or un discours.

Affaire (F) vs Affair (E)

    Affaire (F) can mean business, matter, deal, transaction, or scandal.
    Affair (E) is the equivalent of affaire only in the sense of an event or concern. A love affair is une liaison, une affaire d'amour, or une aventure amoureuse.

Affluence (F) vs Affluence (E)

    Affluence (F) is a crowd of people: Il y avait une affluence attendant à la porte = There were crowds waiting at the door.
    Affluence (E) indicates a lot of something (usually wealth): There's an affluence of information here = Il y a une abondance d'information ici. His affluence is obvious = Sa richesse est évidente.

Agenda (F) vs Agenda (E)

    Agenda (F) refers to a datebook.
    Agenda (E) means l'ordre du jour or le programme.

Agonie (F) vs Agony (E)

    Agonie (F) refers to death pangs or mortal agony.
    Agony (E) means severe physical or mental pain, but not necessarily just this side of death: angoisse, supplice.

Agréable (F) vs Agreeable (E)

    Agréable (F) means pleasant or nice when describing a thing, such as the weather or situation. It's not used to describe people other than in the construction être agréable de sa personne = to be pleasant-looking/personable.
    Agreeable (E) does not normally mean agréable, but rather "in agreement," which doesn't have an exact equivalent in French. I'm agreeable to doing it = Je le ferai volontiers. If that's agreeable/acceptable = S'il n'y a pas d'inconvénient, Si cela vous convient.

Agrément (F) vs Agreement (E)

    Agrément (F) refers to charm, attractiveness, or pleasantness.
    Agreement (E) = accord or harmonie.

Aimer (F) vs Aim (E)

    Aimer (F) means to like or to love.
    Aim (E) can be a noun: but, visées; or a verb: braquer, pointer, viser.

Allée (F) vs Alley (E)

    Allée (F) is a generic term for any sort of road or path: lane, path, avenue, driveway, etc. It can also refer to an aisle.
    Alley (E) = une ruelle.

Allure (F) vs Allure (E)

    Allure (F) normally refers to speed or pace: Rouler à toute allure = to drive at full speed. It can also refer to an appearance or look. Allures refers to behavior or ways.
    Allure (E) indicates charm or attrait.

Altérer (F) vs Alter (E)

    Altérer (F) can mean alter, but it nearly always has a negative connotation: distort, falsify, tamper with, spoil, debase.
    Alter (E) = changer, modifier, transformer, etc.

Amateur (F) vs Amateur (E)

    Amateur (F) is a semi-false cognate. It can mean amateur in the sense of non-professional, but it can also mean a lover of something: un amateur d'art = an art lover.
    Amateur (E) refers to someone who dabbles in a trade or activity: an amateur photographer: un amateur de photographie.

Amitié (F) vs Amity (E)

    Amitié (F) is the generic French word for friendship.
    Amity (E) is used more specifically to mean peaceful relations between nations = concorde or bons rapports.

Ancien (F) vs Ancient (E)

    Ancien (F) can mean old in the sense of not young as well as in the sense of former: mon ancien professeur = my old (former) teacher, mon professeur ancien = my old (aged) teacher. Learn more about adjectives.
    Ancient (E) means antique or très vieux.

Animation(F) vs Animation (E)

    Animation (F) is much more general in French than in English. In addition to animation, life, liveliness, it can also refer to cultural or sports activities as well as leadership.
    Animation (E) means animation or vivacité.

Antique (F) vs Antique (E)

    Antique (F) as an adjective means antique or ancient. As a noun, it refers to antiquity or classical art/style.
    Antique (E) means the same an adjective, but as a noun it refers to une antiquité, un objet d'art ancien, or un meuble ancien.

Apologie (F) vs Apology (E)

    Apologie (F) has three different meanings. The original meaning of defense or plea is related to the judiciary meaning of vindication or justification. The current and most common meaning is praise.
    Apology (E) = les excuses.

Appareil (F) vs Apparel (E)

    Appareil (F) is an apparatus, device, or appliance.
    Apparel (E) is an out-dated term for clothing: habillement.

Are (F) vs Are (E)

    Are (F) refers to an area of one hundred square meters.
    Are (E) is a conjugation of "to be" (être): we are (nous sommes), you are (vous êtes), they are (ils sont).

Argument (F) vs Argument (E)

    Argument (F) is a semi-false cognate. It means argument in the sense of a mathematical or philosophical argument. Also: argument massue = sledgehammer blow; argument publicitaire = advertising claim; argument de vente = selling point.
    Argument (E) is une discussion, une conversation, un débat, or une dispute.

Arriver (F) vs Arrive (E)

    Arriver (F) can mean to arrive or to happen, while arriver à + verb means to succeed in doing or to manage to do something.
    Arrive (E) is translated by arriver.

Arroser (F) vs Arose (E)

    Arroser (F) means to water or spray.
    Arose (E) is the past participle of arise: survenir, se présenter, s'élever.

Assistance (F) vs Assistance (E)

    Assistance (F) is a semi-false cognate. Its primary meaning is audience.
    Assistance (E) indicates help or aid.

Assister (F) vs Assist (E)

    Assister (F) is nearly always followed by à and means to attend something: J'ai assisté à la conférence = I attended (went to) the conference.
    Assist (E) means to help or aid someone or something: I assisted the woman into the building = J'ai aidé la dame à entrer dans l'immeuble.

Assumer (F) vs Assume (E)

    Assumer (F) only means to assume in the sense of taking on responsibility or assuming control. It also means to hold a job or fulfill a role.
    Assume (E) is a semi-false cognate. In addition to assumer, it can also mean supposer or présumer.

Assurance (F) vs Assurance (E)

    Assurance (F) refers to self-confidence or insurance in addition to assurance.
    Assurance (E) means assurance or conviction.

Attendre (F) vs Attend (E)

    Attendre (F) à means to wait for: Nous avons attendu pendant deux heures = We waited for two hours.
    Attend (E) is translated by assister (see above): I attended the conference = J'ai assisté à la conférence.

Audience (F) vs Audience (E)

    Audience (F) is a semi-false cognate. In addition to the meaning of the English word, it can signify: Votre audience, s'il vous plaît = Your attention, please. Ce projet a une large audience - This project has a lot of attention. Donner audience à quelqu'un = To meet with / listen to someone. Une audience publique = A public meeting.
    Audience (E) is a group of spectators or listeners.

Avertissement (F) vs Advertisement (E)

    Avertissement (F) is a warning or caution, from the verb avertir = to warn.
    Advertisement (E) is une publicité, une réclame, or un spot publicitaire.



Actuellement vs Actually

Actuellement means "at the present time" and should be translated as currently or right now: Je travaille actuellement - I am currently working

Actually means "in fact" and should be translated as en fait or à vrai dire. Actually, I don't know him - En fait, je ne le connais pas

Actual means real or true, and depending on the context can be translated as réel, véritable, positif, or concret: The actual value - la valeur réelle

Assister vs Assist

Assister à nearly always means to attend something: J'ai assisté à la conférence - I attended (went to) the conference

To assist means to help or aid someone or something: I assisted the woman into the building - J'ai aidé la dame à entrer dans l'immeuble

Attendre vs Attend

Attendre à means to wait for: Nous avons attendu pendant deux heures - We waited for two hours.

To attend is translated by assister (see above): I attended the conference - J'ai assisté à la conférence

Avertissement vs Advertisement

Un avertissement is a warning or caution, from the verb avertir - to warn. 
An advertisement is une publicité, une réclame, or un spot publicitaire.

Blesser vs Bless

Blesser means to wound, injure, or offend 
to bless means bénir.

Bras vs Bras

Le bras refers to an arm; 
bras in English is the plural of bra - un soutien-gorge.

Caractère vs Character

Caractère refers only to the character or temperament of a person or thing: Cette maison a du caractère - This house has character.

Character can mean both nature/temperament as well as a person in a play: Education develops character - L'éducation développe le caractère, Romeo is a famous character - Romeo est un personnage célebre

Cent vs Cent

Cent is the French word for a hundred 
cent in English can be figuratively translated by un sou. Literally, it is one-hundredth of a dollar.

Chair vs Chair

La chair means flesh. 
A chair can refer to une chaise, un fauteuil (armchair), or un siège (seat).

Chance vs Chance

La chance means luck
chance in English refers to un hasard, une possibilité, or une occasion. To say "I didn't have a chance to..."

Christian vs Christian

Christian is a masculine French name 
Christian in English can be an adjective or a noun: (un) chrétien.

Coin vs Coin

Le coin refers to a corner in every sense of the English word. It can also be used figuratively to mean from the area: l'épicier du coin - the local grocer

A coin is a piece of metal used as money - une pièce de monnaie.

Collège vs College

Le collège and le lycée both refer to high school: Mon collège a 1 000 élèves - My high school has 1,000 students

College is translated by université: This college's tuition is very expensive - Les frais de scolarité à cette université sont très élevés.

Commande vs Command

Commande is a semi-false cognate. It is an order (request) a meal or goods/services. Une commande is translated by order in English.

Command can be translated by un ordre or un commandement.

Commander vs Commander

Commander is a semi-false cognate. It means to make an order (command) as well as to order (request) a meal or goods/services. Une commande is translated by order in English.

Commander is someone that gives orders. It can be translated by commandant.

Con vs Con

Con is a vulgar word that literally refers to female genitalia. It usually means an idiot, or is used as an adjective in the sense of bloody or damned.

Con can be a noun - la frime, une escroquerie, or a verb - duper, escroquer. Pros and cons - le pour et le contre

Crayon vs Crayon

Un crayon is a pencil, the French language uses this expression for both crayon and colored pencil.
A crayon is as un crayon de couleur.

Déception vs Deception

Une déception is a disappointment or let-down.
A deception is une tromperie or duperie.

Demander vs Demand

Demander means to ask for: Il m'a demandé de chercher son pull - He asked me to look for his sweater. Note that the French noun une demande does correspond to the English noun demand. 
To demand is usually translated by exiger: He demanded that I look for his sweater - Il a exigé que je cherche son pull

Déranger vs Derange

Déranger can mean to derange (the mind), as well as to bother, disturb, or disrupt. Excusez-moi de vous déranger... - I'm sorry for bothering you.... 

To derange is used only when talking about mental health (usually as an adjective: deranged = dérangé).

Douche vs Douche

Une douche is a  shower.
Douche in English refers to a method of cleaning a body cavity with air or water: lavage interne.

Entrée vs Entrée

Une entrée is an hors-d'oeuvre or appetizer.
An entrée refers to the main course of a meal: le plat principal.

Envie vs Envy

Avoir envie de means to want or to feel like something: Je n'ai pas envie de travailler - I don't want to work / I don't feel like working. The verb envier, however, does mean to envy.

Envy means to be jealous or desirous of something belonging to another. The French verb is envier: I envy John's courage - J'envie le courage à Jean

Éventuellement vs Eventually

Éventuellement means possibly, if need be, or even:

    Vous pouvez éventuellement prendre ma voiture - You can even take my car / You can take my car if need be.

Eventually indicates that an action will occur at a later time; it can be translated by finalement, à la longue, or tôt ou tard:

    I will eventually do it - Je le ferai finalement / tôt ou tard

Expérience vs Experience

Expérience is a semi-false cognate, because it means both experience and experiment: J'ai fait une expérience - I did an experiment

Experience can be a noun or verb refering to something that happened. Only the noun translates into expérience: Experience shows that ... - L'expérience démontre que...

Finalement vs Finally

Finalement means eventually or in the end.
Finally is enfin or en dernier lieu.

Football vs Football

Le football, or le foot, refers to soccer (in American English). 
In the US, football = le football américain.

Formidable vs Formidable

Formidable is an interesting word because it means great or terrific; almost the opposite of the English. Ce film est formidable ! - This is a great movie!

Formidable in English means dreadful or fearsome: The opposition is formidable - L'opposition est redoutable/effrayante

Gentil vs Gentle

Gentil usually means nice or kind: Il a un gentil mot pour chacun - He has a kind word for everyone. It can also mean good, as in: il a été gentil - he was a good boy

Gentle can also mean kind but in the more physical sense of soft or not rough. It can be translated by doux, aimable, modéré, or léger: He is gentle with his hands - Il a la main douce. A gentle breeze - une  brise légère

Gratuité vs Gratuity

Gratuité refers to anything that is given for free: la gratuité de l'éducation - free education

while a gratuity is un pourboire or une gratification.

Gros vs Gross

Gros means big, fat, heavy, or serious: un gros problème - a big/serious problem

Gross means grossier, fruste, or (informally) dégueullasse.

Ignorer vs Ignore

Ignorer is a semi-false cognate. It nearly always means to be ignorant or unaware of something: j'ignore tout de cette affaire - I know nothing about this business

To ignore means to deliberately not pay attention to someone or something. The usual translations are ne tenir aucun compte de, ne pas relever, and ne pas prêter attention à.

Librairie vs Library

Une librairie refers to a bookstore.
Library is une bibliothèque.

Monnaie vs Money

La monnaie can refer to currency, coin(age), or change
Money is the general term for argent.

Napkin vs Napkin

Un napkin refers to a sanitary napkin. 
A napkin is correctly translated by une serviette.

Occasion vs Occasion

Occasion refers to a(n) occasion, circumstance, opportunity, or second-hand purchase. Avoir l'occasion de means to have a/the chance to: Je n'avais pas l'occasion de lui parler - I didn't have a chance to talk to him.

An occasion is une occasion, un événement, or un motif.

Opportunité vs Opportunity

Opportunité refers to timeliness or appropriateness: Nous discutons de l'opportunité d'aller à la plage - We're discussing the appropriateness of going to the beach (under the circumstances).

Opportunity leans toward favorable circumstances for a particular action or event and is translated by une occasion: It's an opportunity to improve your French - C'est une occasion de te perfectionner en français.

Parti vs Party

Un parti can refer to several different things: a political party, an option or course of action (prendre un parti - to make a decision), or a match (i.e., He's a good match for you). It is also the past participle of partir (to leave).

A party usually refers to une fête, soirée, or réception; un correspondant (on the phone), or un groupe/une équipe.

Parti/Partie vs Party

Une partie can mean a part (e.g., une partie du film - a part of the film), a field or subject, a game (e.g., une partie de cartes - a game of cards), or a party in a trial.

A party usually refers to une fête, soirée, or réception; un correspondant (on the phone), or un groupe/une équipe.

Pièce vs Piece

Une pièce is a semi-false cognate. It means piece only in the sense of broken pieces. Otherwise, it indicates a room, sheet of paper, coin, or play. 

Piece is a part of something - un morceau or une tranche.

Professeur vs Professor

Un professeur refers to a high school, college, or university teacher or instructor.
A professor is un professeur titulaire d'une chaire.

Publicité vs Publicity

Publicité is a semi-false cognate. In addition to publicity, une publicité can mean advertising in general, as well as a commercial or advertisement. 
Publicity is translated by de la publicité.

Quitter vs Quit

Quitter is a semi-false cognate: it means both to leave and to quit (i.e., leave something for good). 
When quit means to leave something for good, it is translated by quitter. When it means to quit (stop) doing something, it is translated by arrêter de: I need to quit smoking - Je dois arrêter de fumer.

Raisin vs Raisin

Un raisin is a grape.
Raisin is un raisin sec.

Rater vs Rate

Rater means to misfire, miss, mess up, or fail.
Rate is the noun proportion or taux or the verb évaluer or considérer.

Réaliser vs Realize

Réaliser means to fulfill (a dream or aspiration) or achieve. 
To realize means se rendre compte de, prendre conscience de, or comprendre.

Rester vs Rest

Rester is a semi-false cognate. It usually means to stay or remain: Je suis restée à la maison - I stayed at the house. When it is used idiomatically, it is translated by rest: He refused to let the matter rest - Il refusait d'en rester là

The verb to rest in the sense of getting some rest is translated by se reposer: Elle ne se repose jamais - She never rests

Réunion vs Reunion

Une réunion can mean collection, gathering, raising (of money), or reunion. 
A reunion is une réunion, but note that it usually refers to a meeting of a group that has been separated for an extended period of time (e.g., class reunion, family reunion).

Robe vs Robe

Une robe is a dress, frock, or gown.
A robe is un peignoir.

Sale vs Sale

Sale is an adjective - dirty. Saler means to salt. 
A sale is une vente or un solde.

Sympathique vs Sympathetic

Sympathique (often shortened to sympa) means nice, likeable, friendly, kindly. 
Sympathetic can be translated by compatissant or de sympathie.

Type vs Type

Un type is informal for a guy or bloke. In the normal register, it can mean type, kind, or epitome. Quel type de moto ? - What kind of motorbike? Le type de l'égoïsme - The epitome of selfishness.

Type means un type, un genre, une espèce, une sorte, une marque, etc.

Unique vs Unique

The French word unique means only when it precedes a noun (unique fille - only girl) and unique or one of a kind when it follows. 
In English, unique means unique, inimitable, or exceptionnel.

Zone vs Zone

Une zone usually means a zone or an area, but it can also refer to a slum. 
A zone is une zone.
